docs: troubleshooting backlog items (#9474)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Support/troubleshooting.mdx

Environment variables set in your terminal aren't automatically available to GUI-based applications like Langflow Desktop when launched through the Finder or the Start Menu.
To set environment variables for Langflow Desktop, see [Set environment variables for Langflow Desktop](/environment-variables#set-environment-variables-for-langflow-desktop).

### Access Langflow Desktop startup logs

> If you encounter issues with Langflow Desktop, you might need to access startup logs for debugging.
> 
> For more information, see [Access Langflow Desktop startup logs](/logging#desktop-logs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter issues with Langflow Desktop, you might need to [access Langflow Desktop startup logs](/logging#desktop-logs) for debugging.
```

Environment variables set in your terminal aren't automatically available to GUI-based applications like Langflow Desktop when launched through the Finder or the Start Menu.
To set environment variables for Langflow Desktop, see [Set environment variables for Langflow Desktop](/environment-variables#set-environment-variables-for-langflow-desktop).

> ### Access Langflow Desktop startup logs

Reviewer: Do you think this should be on the logging page?

If not, we should add a link on the logging page to this section. It could be under [See also](https://docs.langflow.org/logging#see-also).

Author: Added to logging and linked it from troubleshooting

> If you encounter issues with Langflow Desktop and need to access startup logs for debugging, follow these steps for your operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you encounter issues with Langflow Desktop, you might need to access startup logs for debugging.
Follow the steps for your operating system.
```

> The log file is only created when Langflow Desktop runs. If you don't see a log file, try starting Langflow Desktop first, then check for the log file.

Reviewer: move this to step 3 in each tab since it is explaining what to do if there is no `langflow.log` file. You don't need to know this info until you get to step 3.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

1. Open Terminal and run:
   ```bash
   cd ~/Library/Logs/com.Langflow
   ```

> 2. Open the log contents to display the log files:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Open the log contents to view the log files:
```

I generally avoid the word display because it's frequently misused.
https://developers.google.com/style/word-list#display

I think it would be more accurate to say "print the logs" or "open the log file"

   ```bash
   open .
   ```

> 3. Locate the `langflow.log` file and send it to support for debugging assistance.

Reviewer: This seems to contradict the previous step where you said to "open" something, but then you said to locate a file. Is `com.langflow` a directory?

Reviewer: Also see my comment on line 161 - Who is support?

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

> 1. Open the Command Prompt (CMD) and run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open the Command Prompt (CMD), and then run the following command:
```

   ```cmd
   cd %LOCALAPPDATA%\com.langflow\logs
   ```

> 2. Run the command:

Reviewer: could you make this step more descriptive? What is the command going to do?

   ```cmd
   start .
   ```

> 3. Locate the `Langflow.log` file and send it to support for debugging assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Locate the `Langflow.log` file, and then send it to support for debugging assistance.
```

Who is support? Probably need to link to https://docs.langflow.org/contributing-github-issues and maybe https://docs.langflow.org/luna-for-langflow

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

> ### `User not found or inactive` when running multiple flows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### User not found or inactive when running multiple flows
```

Avoid code font in headings.

> When running multiple Langflow instances locally on different ports (for example, one on `localhost:7860` and another on `localhost:7861`), you might see authentication errors in the logs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running multiple local Langflow instances on different ports, such as `localhost:7860` and `localhost:7861`, you might see authentication errors in the logs.
For example:
```

> When running multiple Langflow instances locally on different ports (for example, one on `localhost:7860` and another on `localhost:7861`), you might see authentication errors in the logs:

Reviewer: Please clarify if this issue only applies to LF OSS.

```text
[07/22/25 10:57:07] INFO     2025-07-22 10:57:07 - INFO     - utils - User not found or inactive.
```

> To resolve this error, use separate browser instances or browser profiles for each Langflow instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To resolve this error, use separate browser instances or browser profiles to access each Langflow instance.
```

Reviewer: Is this actually a blocking error, or is it just a quirk of the logs?

If you want to retain your settings files, create a backup of those files before clearing the cache folder.
:::

> ### Langflow Desktop shows "latest version" but is outdated

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Langflow Desktop says it is running the latest version, but it is actually behind
```

> If Langflow Desktop shows you're on the latest version (for example, version `1.3.3`) but a newer version (like `1.5.0`) is available, this is likely because you're running a version prior to `1.4.2`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are running Langflow Desktop version 1.4.2 or earlier, the UI might incorrectly report that you are on the latest version when a newer version is available.
```

> The automatic update feature through the graphical interface was introduced in version `1.4.2`.
> Versions prior to `1.4.2` don't include the necessary functionality to perform updates.
> 
> To resolve, uninstall Langflow Desktop and download the latest version from the [official website](https://langflow.org/desktop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This happens because the automatic update feature in the UI was introduced in version 1.4.2.
Earlier versions can't automatically detect or apply updates.

To resolve this issue, uninstall Langflow Desktop, and then [download and install the latest version of Langflow Desktop](https://langflow.org/desktop).
```

Reviewer: The original wording for the last sentence makes it sound like the docs site isn't official.
